 First: (C.A.I) Computer Assisted Instruction:
Computer-assisted instruction is one of the first educational
applications of using computers in education, as the computer is used
as a tool to facilitate and develop the educational process by finding
new ways and methods to present different traditional subjects, and
testing the extent of students’ understanding, while giving them the
opportunity to practice according to the speed and ability of each
individual. The current research is considered “The effectiveness of
multimedia and hyper-computer programs” as one of the types of
computer-assisted instruction.
Computer-aided instruction (CAI) is done through a set of patterns
that can be explained as follows :-
 Tutorial:
The purpose of which is to provide a certain amount of knowledge to
the student that is new to him. This type is somewhat similar to
traditional methods such as books, cassette tapes, videos, slides, or
lectures. Through the educational programs, the student can learn
new knowledge, verify the accuracy of previous information, or
reinforce his correct responses or correct his mistakes. This type of
program is one of the most widespread computer programs, and
through it, new concepts, skills, or information can be presented to
the learner to study on his own. The student's performance can also
be evaluated either through his work with the program or through
traditional methods - or the paper and pen method, so that the student
can be directed to re-study a specific part or to study a previous topic
that can help him study the current topic.
 Drill and Practice:
The computer has great potential in the field of education and training
in basic skills, as it provides the skills required in terms of repetition
and training opportunities, starting from the stage of presenting the
specific concept on which the basic skill is based to the stage of
evaluating the learner’s performance and guiding him. Much of what
students learn requires some training and problem solving to improve
the learning process and increase the level of achievement. These
trainings are also important for developing some skills in order to identify the learner's mistakes and to provide appropriate treatment
methods for him. Thus, through these programs, the three basic
components of the learning cycle can be provided, which are training,
feedback, and treatment. These programs are distinguished from
traditional training methods in that they provide the appropriate level
of training for the student, as they initially provide him with a set of
pre-tests to determine his level, then provide the appropriate training
or problems for this level, then move him to a higher level. In this
way, they take into account the principle of individual differences
between students, which is often difficult to confront with traditional
methods. The most important thing that distinguishes training and
practice programs is that they provide immediate feedback so that the
student knows the correctness of his responses, which greatly
enhances his learning. These programs also provide a great
opportunity for the learner to train on a specific skill or to review
specific educational topics in order to avoid shortcomings in the
learner. It is a good opportunity to overcome the problems that
students face in normal training methods in the classroom, such as
fear, shyness, or individual differences. Training programs become
more effective if the answer given by the student is short and can be
It is presented quickly, which increases the chance of achieving the
main goal of the training and reduces the chance of errors. Some
answers may be complex and require some preliminary operations to
reach the final solution. Therefore, the skill must be analyzed into a
set of primary skills and feedback provided for each skill. Training
and practice programs work to change the traditional patterns of
presenting problems to students by employing sound effects, colors,
animations, and many computer capabilities that make the training
process enjoyable, especially if combined with a flexible and logical
design of the program, which allows many choices or alternatives for
the learner, such as determining the level of difficulty of the program
or the speed of its paragraphs.
The training and practice method usually follows the following
steps :-
o Organizing the required learning into units.
o Before the learner begins studying any unit, he must take a pretest in order to determine his level, in order to provide the
appropriate lessons.
o When answering the questions: If the learner answers, his
correct answer is supported directly by the appearance of the
next question on the screen, and if the learner makes a mistake,
the computer alerts him by writing the wrong answer.
o The computer provides a test to the learner upon completion of
studying the unit, and the test includes all aspects of learning in
the unit being trained.
 Simulation:
Simulation means the process of representing, modeling, or creating a
set of situations as a representation or imitation of life situations so
that it is easy to display and delve into them to explore their secrets
and learn about their possible results closely. The need for this type
of program arises when it is difficult to embody a certain event in
reality due to its cost or the need to perform many complex
operations. Through simulation programs, it is possible to represent
many of life's problems and secrets, such as the impact of the state's
energy policy on the state's economy. Any system or set of situations
and facts can also be presented by clarifying some equations that
explain how the components of this system interact.
 Instructional Games:
Educational computer games depend on integrating the learning
process with play in a recreational model in which students compete
and compete to obtain some points as a valuable gain. In order to
achieve such a victory, the learner is required to solve a mathematical
or logical problem, read and interpret some instructions, or answer
some questions about a topic. Through this method, educational
games add an element of excitement and motivation to the academic
work. Educational games usually take the form that attracts the
learner and makes him not leave the game without achieving the
desired goal or goals. They are based primarily on the principle of
competition to stimulate the learner's motivation, as they depend on
the educational capabilities of the computer when it becomes possible
to evaluate the learner's performance through some exercises that are
dealt with indirectly, which increases the likelihood of achieving the
lesson's goals.