Multimedia
The continuous development in the field of computers has led
to the emergence of a new wave of programs and devices called
multimedia programs and devices. Each medium of communication
has its own unique features and characteristics and its own methods
of communication and stimulating the senses. Computers are no
longer limited to providing texts or a set of simple engineering
drawings, but their capabilities and technology have increased and
they have become capable of storing, designing, displaying and
transmitting still images, moving images, animations, video clips,
texts and music.
Multimedia has been known in the field of educational technology
since the sixties, considering that the use of more than one
educational medium in a single educational situation falls within the
scope of multimedia. With the emergence of educational television,
which displays more than one medium (sound - image - movement -
written text), the term multimedia was also used. However, at the
present time, with the use of the latest computer, the term has
reappeared more brilliantly and brilliantly and more different from
previous uses that limited it to the use of more than one educational
medium in an integrated manner.
 Advantages of using multimedia.
o Developing innovative thinking in the learner through the diversity
of ideas, the diversity of presentation tools and the provision of
elements of attraction and excitement.
o Creating great flexibility in obtaining and transferring information.
o Facilitating the growth of cognitive abilities in the learner.
o Facilitating the growth of abilities in the learner to make decisions
and solve problems.
o Increasing the learner's self-activity and spontaneity and increasing
his positivity.
o Using multimedia within a computer program creates a space to
move from texts and data to the world of graphics (graphic
representation), sound and image.Multimedia
11
o Using multimedia within computer programs creates an interaction
between the learner and the computer, so the program is not linear,
but the learner can proceed at his own pace.
o Solving some educational problems such as dropout and boredom.
o Achieving the various aspects of cognitive and skill-based
educational goals. In the cognitive aspect, multimedia helps with
understanding, saves time and eliminates boredom for learners. In
the skill aspect, it provides us with means for practical presentation
of the skill to be done, and it also plays an important role in
modifying the direction through the emotional aspect.
o It allows the learner freedom of movement within the program, as
it enables him to follow the subject in a manner that suits his
abilities and interests.
o Increasing achievement, modifying directions and increasing the
ability to comprehend.
o Making the curriculum flexible by introducing modifications to its
current organizations.
o Multimedia facilitates the ability to deal with a large amount of
information.
o Multimedia helps in relying on the nature of human multisensory.
o Presenting the content within the program at various different
levels, ranging from easy to difficult, so the multimedia
environment is a flexible environment that requires learners to
make decisions and evaluate progress continuously.
o Stimulating learners' interest by presenting various forms of media
with the aim of clarifying a single idea or concept within an
integrated, interactive, organized framework.
o Providing the learner with an environment saturated with
multimedia that helps unify information with a variety of its
sources.