 Second: (C.M.I) Computer Managed Instruction:
The student in computer-managed education does not control the
computer and has no direct connection to the computer except in the
narrowest limits, as the computer is used indirectly in the classroom,
and through it the teacher is assisted in managing education without
actually teaching through various computer applications such as :-
 Collecting data, keeping records, calculating average grades, and
providing reports on them.
 Managing and arranging educational resources and equipment.
 Managing pre-tests and nutrition for students.
 Managing training exercises for students.
The computer is distinguished in multimedia programs by many
features, including :-
 The ability to store and retrieve a huge amount of
information:
The computer is capable of storing a large and diverse group of data
and information that take several forms such as texts, images,
animations, and video clips, as it can store a large amount of
educational material that cannot be kept and retrieved upon request
by any other means. Recently, many storage media have appeared
that can be attached to the computer and have become available to the
learner so that they can store and retrieve information at any time at
school or at home.
 The ability to visually display information:
Many computer programs are able to draw process and display
images on the screen in an attractive and useful way. This
information may be texts or drawings drawn by the computer or
entered into it electronically. These drawings may be geometric,
graphic or natural drawings. The degree of accuracy of these images
and the method of dealing with them varies according to the level of
the learner and the objectives of the subject matter. The high speed in performing operations in mathematics:
One of the most important features of the computer is its ability to
perform operations in mathematics at a high speed, which called for
an attempt to reduce this speed in educational programs accompanied
by the computer to suit the level of the student and not cause him any
confusion. This high speed is important in searching for and
displaying information. It depends on the amount of information that
the computer searches for or displays, the display method and how to
deal with this amount of information. The speed of the computer
sometimes appears as a modest speed in displaying, moving and
processing images due to its need for a large amount of computer
memory.
 Providing many opportunities and choices for the learner:
One of the most important characteristics of a good program is
providing choices or alternatives for the user in a way that may not be
available in the real environment, such as simulation programs that
provide an environment similar to the real experimental environment
while allowing the learner to determine the conditions and
circumstances in which the experiment takes place. There are several
methods for providing these alternatives, including the random
method, the linear method, and the branching method.
 The ability to control and manage many accessories:
The computer has the ability to control many other devices connected
to it and benefit from them. It can control speakers, musical
equipment, printers, graphics equipment, light display devices, and
multimedia presentations, and thus it can be a multi-media
presentation system. This control process is characterized by being a
two-way control process. The cassette tape player may tell the
computer that the tape has finished, and the computer may tell the
slide show to display the next slide or the printer to copy several
copies of the document.
 The ability to interact with the user:
The computer is able to provide the learner with the opportunity to
control and make decisions in the program's procedures in a flexible
and positive manner. It also provides many methods that ensure good
communication between the learner and the computer in order to helpMultimedia
9
the student complete the study process easily and in a way that helps
achieve the desired educational goals well. One of the most important
features of the positivity of educational computer programs is their
monitoring of the learner's errors and trying to find out their source,
address the causes of the error, and direct him to study specific topics
according to the errors he has accomplished or issued. However, it is
difficult to design a specific method through which all errors that the
learner may fall into can be anticipated. He may be a beginner student
or a skilled teacher, and thus the existence of problems with the
program's operation is possible. The computer does not always make
the learning process comfortable or more enjoyable for the student in
all cases, as this depends on the place of learning and how it is used.
The computer can contribute to improving the outcomes of the
learning process and increasing its effectiveness.